first draft tidymodels 2024 survey post (#687)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/tidymodels-2024-survey/index.Rmd

* [x] Find photo & update yaml metadata
* [x] Create `thumbnail-sq.jpg`; height and width should be equal
* [x] Create `thumbnail-wd.jpg`; width should be >5x height
* [x] `hugodown::use_tidy_thumbnails()`
* [x] Add intro sentence, e.g. the standard tagline for the package
* [x] `usethis::use_tidy_thanks()`
-->

At the end of 2021, we created a survey to get community input on how we prioritize our projects. [The results](https://colorado.posit.co/rsc/tidymodels-priorities-2022/) gave us a good sense of which items people were most interested in. Since then we have completed a number of projects:

* **Model fairness metrics** were included in [yardstick 1.3.0](https://yardstick.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#yardstick-130) with [tidymodels.org](https://www.tidymodels.org/) posts coming soon.
* **Spatial analysis models and methods** led to the creation of [spatialsample](https://spatialsample.tidymodels.org/).
* **H2O.ai support** was achieved with the creation of [agua](https://agua.tidymodels.org/).
* **Better serialization tools** are now provided in the [bundle](https://github.com/rstudio/bundle) package.

> Almost everything that respondents prioritized highly last year has either been completed or is currently in progress. Our main focus right now is to wrap up survival analysis, which is being done right now with a series of CRAN releases for the affected packages. The upcoming things we will be working on are postprocessing and supervised feature selection. Since this survey seemed to work well last year, we've decided to use it again to prioritize features for next year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Almost everything that respondents prioritized highly last year has either been completed or is currently in progress. Our main focus right now is to wrap up survival analysis, which is being done right now with a series of CRAN releases for the affected packages. Most immediately following these releases, we will be working on postprocessing and supervised feature selection. Beyond that, we'd like to once again ask the community for feedback to help us better prioritize features in the coming year.
```

Reviewer: Since 2021 was >1 year ago

## Looking toward 2024

**Take a look at [our survey for next priorities](TODO ADD LINK HERE)** and let us know what you think. There are some items we've put "on the menu" but you can write in other items that you are interested in. 

> The current slate of our possible priorities include: 

Reviewer 2: Let's make these subsections that we can link to. I want the actual survey to have links to these sections.

Author: You want each bullet to be a section?

as in `sparse tibbles` be a section, `Causal inference interface` be a section, etc etc.

Author: Also, from looking at the survey preview, I don't think we can link to each section from each bullet in the survey

Reviewer 2: > You want each bullet to be a section?

Subsection, yes. 

> Also, from looking at the survey preview, I don't think we can link to each section from each bullet in the survey

We can't use hyperlinks there in bullets?

Author: Done!

> * **sparse tibbles**: Many models benefit from having sparse data, both in execution time and memory constraints. We can't take full advantage of this since recipes use tibbles. This project would involve making it so tibbles can hold sparse data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **sparse tibbles**: Many models benefit from having sparse data in execution time and memory constraints. We can't take full advantage of this since recipes use tibbles. This project would involve making it so the tibbles used _inside of a recipe_ can hold sparse data. This would not be intended as a general substitute for regular tibbles. 
```

> * **Causal inference interface** 

Author: @simonpcouch please fill this one out 😄

> * **sparse tibbles**: Many models benefit from having sparse data, both in execution time and memory usage. We can't take full advantage of this since recipes use tibbles. This project would involve making it so the tibbles used _inside of a recipe_ can hold sparse data. This would not be intended as a general substitute for regular tibbles. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Sparse tibbles**: Many models benefit from having sparse data, both in execution time and memory usage. We can't take full advantage of this since recipes use tibbles. This project would involve making it so the tibbles used _inside of a recipe_ can hold sparse data. This would not be intended as a general substitute for regular tibbles. 
```

* **Improve chattr** [chattr](https://github.com/mlverse/chattr) is an interface to LLMs (Large Language Models). It enables interaction with the model directly from the RStudio IDE. This task would involve fine-tuning it to give better results when used for tidymodels tasks.

> * **Cost-sensitive learning api** The main part of this task is making our approaches to this uniform across models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Cost-sensitive learning api** This feature is another solution for severe class imbalances. The main part of this task is making our approaches to this uniform across models.
```

> * **Expand models for stacking ensembles**

Author: @simonpcouch please fill this one out 😄

> * **Improve chattr**: [chattr](https://github.com/mlverse/chattr) is an interface to LLMs (Large Language Models). It enables interaction with the model directly from the RStudio IDE. This task would involve fine-tuning it to give better results when used for tidymodels tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Improve chattr**: [chattr](https://github.com/mlverse/chattr) is an interface to large language models (LLMs). It enables interaction with the model directly from the RStudio IDE. This task would involve fine-tuning it to give better results when used for tidymodels tasks.
```

* **Extend support for spatial ML** The work on spatial resampling went well, but want to include more comprehensive support for spatial modeling.

> * **Ordinal regression extension package** Adding support for ordinal regression models in a parsnip extension package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Ordinal regression extension package:** Ordinal regression models are specific to classification tasks with a natural ordering to the outcome categories (e.g., low, medium, high, etc.). We could add support for modeling this type of data in a parsnip extension package.
```

> * **Cost-sensitive learning api**: This feature is another solution for severe class imbalances. The main part of this task is making our approaches to this uniform across models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Cost-sensitive learning API**: This feature is another solution for severe class imbalances. The main part of this task is making our approaches to this uniform across models.
```

> * **Expand models for stacking ensembles**: As of now, the stacks package only supports combining the predictions of member models using a regularized linear model. We could extend the package to allow for combining predictions using any modeling [workflow](https://github.com/tidymodels/workflows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Expand models for stacking ensembles**: As of now, the stacks package only supports combining the predictions of member models using a regularized linear model. We could extend the package to allow for combining predictions using any modeling [workflow](https://workflows.tidymodels.org).
```

woops

> * **Extend support for spatial ML**: The work on spatial resampling went well, but want to include more comprehensive support for spatial modeling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Extend support for spatial ML**: [spatialsample](https://spatialsample.tidymodels.org/) introduced a number of spatial resampling methods to tidymodels. More comprehensive support for spatial ML would involve better integrating [spatial metrics](https://www.mm218.dev/posts/2022-08-11-waywiser-010-is-now-on-cran/) into the framework and introducing support for new spatial model types.
```
